---
layout: wocc24
title: wocc24
permalink: /events/wocc24
---
----
#### [Introduction](#Intro) | [Topics](#topics) | [Dates](#dates) | [Organizers](#org) | [Program Committee](#pc) | [Submission](#submission) | [Program](#program) | [Previous Editions](/events) 

----
#### held in conjunction with ISC'24: [The International Conference on High Performance Computing](https://www.isc-hpc.com/)
#### Submission is open through [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=wocc24).
---

### <a name="Intro"></a>Introduction
The landscape of scientific computing is changing rapidly as complex, multi-stage pipelined workflows that combine traditional HPC computations with large-scale data analytics and AI are becoming increasingly common. Cloud computing is becoming a dominant market force, driving innovation in both hardware and the software needed to manage increasing system and workflow complexity. These next-generation workflows not only seek to improve the efficiency and scale of traditional HPC simulations, but additionally aim to apply large-scale and distributed computing to domains with high societal impact such as autonomous vehicles, precision agriculture, or smart cities. Such complex workflows are expected to require the coordinated use of supercomputers, cloud data centers, and edge-processing devices in an environment with shared characteristics. Providing a seamless environment that combines the best of these worlds leads to an era of Converged Computing.

Cloud computing technologies are gaining prevalence in HPC due to their benefits of resource dynamism, automation, reproducibility, and resilience. Similarly, HPC technologies for application performance optimization and sophisticated scheduling of complex resources are being integrated into modern cloud infrastructures. However, the convergence of HPC and cloud also raises a series of new challenges in areas of resource management, data transfers, storage and throughput. Modern cloud and HPC frameworks provide heterogeneous resources, including processors and accelerators, diverse types of memories and storage, and network links, to match the diversity in workloads. Similarly, cloud technologies for elasticity, resilience, and multi-tenancy need to be adopted in HPC while ensuring high performance and throughput. Converged software stacks will need to provide middleware and resource management to facilitate the use of heterogeneous hardware components, improve the system utilization, and provide seamless interfaces for users and application developers.  

The Second Workshop on Converged Computing (WOCC’24) will provide the edge, HPC and cloud communities a dedicated venue for discussing challenges and research opportunities, deployment efforts, and best practices in supporting complex workflows on coordinated use of supercomputers and cloud data centers as well as edge-processing devices. The workshop encourages interaction between participants who are developing applications, algorithms, middleware and infrastructure for converged environments. The workshop will be an ideal place for the community to define the current state-of-the-art, identify fundamental challenges and feasible future technologies and techniques. The workshop aims to start discussion on questions, including: what changes to architecture, hardware, and middleware designs (including hardware monitoring, the operating systems, system software, resource management) are needed? How to monitor and collect system level metrics for utilization to identify bottlenecks to meet the different targets in performance, cost, power budget? How to support different coupling patterns (e.g., loose or tight) between traditional scientific and big-data/AI components? What complex workflows and workloads leverage heterogeneity, elasticity, dynamic resources provisioning?


### <a name="topics"></a>Topics of Interest 
We encourage works that are related to the following topics and accept other related topics.

 + Experience and best practice of converged computing of cloud, edge, and HPC
 + Resource and job management software 
 + Architectures, networks, and storage
 + Software stack, middleware, and infrastructure 
 + Advanced models for expressing system resources
 + Scheduling, resource allocation, and adaptation
 + Complex workflows including HPC, Machine-Learning, and Data Analytics components
 + Early results and evaluation of porting HPC applications to clouds
 + Elasticity and scalability amid resource heterogeneity
 + Virtualization, containers, container runtimes, and container orchestration frameworks 
 + Scalable and elastic storage and I/O data management services and architectures
 + Resilience, fault tolerance, and reliability in converged computing environments
 + Early results of leveraging cloud techniques (e.g., Kubernetes, cloud databases) for HPC applications
 + System- and application-level resource monitoring and optimization techniques and tools

### <a name="dates"></a>Important Dates
 + Paper Submission -- ~~Mar 01, 2024~~ Mar 07, 2024
 + Author Notifications -- Apr 01, 2024
 + Workshop day -- May 16, 2024
 + Camera Ready -- June 17, 2024, including Copyright Form
 

### <a name="org"></a>Organizers
 + Ivy Peng (KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden)
 + Daniel Milroy (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA)
 + Tapasya Patki (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA)
 + Valeria Cardellini (Tor Vergata University of Rome, Italy)
 
### <a name="pc"></a>Program Committee
  + Jeff Vetter, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA
  + Daniel Ahlin, Google, Switzerland
  + Claudia Misale, IBM, USA
  + Jae-Seung Yeom, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA
  + Rafael Tolosana-Calasanz, Universidad de Zaragoza, Spain
  + Nathan Tallent, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA
  + Gabriele Russo Russo, Tor Vergata University of Rome, Italy
  + Nina Mujkanovic, HPE, Switzerland
  + Antony Chazapis, FORTH-ICS, Greece
  + Jakob Luettgau, University of Tennessee Knoxville, USA
  + Manolis Marazakis, FORTH-ICS, Greece
  + Yoonho Park, IBM, USA

### <a name="submission"></a>Submission 
Submission is open now! Please submit your manuscript through [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=wocc24).
Paper submissions must be formatted using LNCS style (see [Springer’s website](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines). Here is the link for Springer's requirements https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines with possibility to download templates etc. Springer’s proceedings LaTeX templates are also available in Overleaf. Use single-column format. Text must be a maximum of 12 pages (including figures and references) with 2 possible extra pages after the review to address the reviewer's comments. Papers must be suitable for double-blind review (see [ISC High Performance Double-Blind Review Guidelines](https://www.isc-hpc.com/files/isc_events/documents/ISC_double_blind_guidelines.pdf)).


### <a name="review"></a>Review Process 
Each paper is expected to receive a minimum of 3 reviews.
Double-blind peer-review will be used.
Papers will be evaluated based on novelty, technical soundness, clarity of presentation, and impact.
The Technical Program Committee reserves the right to reject incorrectly formatted papers.

----

## <a name="program"></a>Program
TBD
Half day, May 16, 2024, Hamburg, Germany

